- In this lesson we'll be focused
on importing data into Python.
By the end of this video you should be able to describe
efficient and easy to use methods that pandas
provides for importing data into memory.
Identify functions such read dash csv for reading
a csv, commas separated values, file into a Dataframe.
And discuss about other data resources
that pandas can directly import from.
One of the biggest advantages of using pandas is
its ability to ingest data from a variety of sources
in a variety of data types and formats.
We can simply say that pandas has simplified
the data ingestion for all of us.
Let's look at a few of these data formats
and functions that make it possible.
One of the most popular data formats
is comma separated values, or shortly csv.
Csv is a simple file format used to store tabular data
such as a spreadsheet or a database.
Files in the csv format can be ingested into Python
as Dataframes using the pandas read csv function.
JSON, or java script object notation,
is a format for structuring data
and it's commonly used for communication
within web applications.
Using the read JSON function in Python pandas
we can ingest the structure and contents of a JSON file
as a pandas Dataframe or a series data structure.
Html, is a hyper text markup language,
and it's a file format used as the basis of every webpage.
The data in an html document gets stored as a list
of pandas DataFrames using the read html function.
Sequel, or SQL, stands for structured query language.
SQL is used to communicate with a database using queries
to insert, delete, and select data of interest.
The read SQL query function in pandas provides
us a way to subset and load data
from a relational database to Python.
Similarly, we can load a whole relational table using
the pandas read SQL table function.
Then it will simply show in tabular format,
as a pandas DataFrame data structure.
As a summary, ingestion of data
into Python was not always easy.
Pandas made it an intuitive process.
And it has enabled data scientists with tools
to manipulate the data ingested
and key data structures to allow
for a vast variety of these data formats.
We listed just a few of the source types
that we can ingest into Python.
But there are many more examples if you follow
the link provided in the summary slide.