- In this lecture, we'll be focused on
some of the useful functions in Pandas
to generate descriptive data statistics.
By the end of this video, you should recognize
the value of Pandas to data science and Python.
Describe the capabilities of Pandas
for performing statistical analysis on data,
and leverage frequently used functions such as describe.
We'll also explore other statistical functions
in Pandas which is constantly evolving.
Summary statistics are quantities that capture
various characteristics of a data set
and the values in it, with a single number
or small set of numbers.
Some basic summary statistics that
you should compute for your data set
are mean and standard deviation.
Pandas does this automatically
through the describe function.
Looking at these measures will give you an idea
of the nature of your data and they can tell you
if there's something wrong with your data.
For example, min and max values
are out of the range of, that are out of the range
of zero to five can point to a poor data set
in our ratings database.
Correlation or 'corr', C O R R function for computing
Pearson coefficient, can be used to explore
the dependencies between different variables and the data.
Some other correlation coefficients are available,
like Kendall and Spearman correlations
and Pandas can offer support for those as well.
As a side note, a negative correlation score means
if X becomes larger, then Y becomes smaller.
And positive correlation means that
the two variables are correlated.
We will use the corr, or C O R R function as it is
and wait until the next class on statistics
to explore correlation measurements further.
Pandas also offers a number of statistical functions
you can perform over the whole data frame,
a part of the data frame, or individual columns.
We refer to all these functions
as 'func' on the slide, or F U N C.
Just replace your favorite statistical operation with it,
like max, min, mode, and median,
and you'll find that function in Pandas.
In this slide, we provide you with some basic information
to refer to on inputs and outputs
of mean and standard deviation,
in addition to the ones we mentioned before.
Pandas also provides capabilities for checking
a condition over a whole data frame or columns with it.
Any and all functions, when applied to the resulting
objects from the comparison,
respectively tell us if any of the comparison
results are true or if all of them are true.
As a summary, Pandas provides an
extensive array of functions for performing
statistical analysis, although we scratched the surface
by reliving a few here, I recommend that you spend some time
exploring other functions given
at the link we provide on this slide.
Now let's spend some time in our notebook
to review what we discussed.