- Okay let's get started looking at the simple
descriptive statistics of our data set.
We acknowledge that you might not have a
statistics background, so we will focus
on a very lightweight overview of these functions.
Your next class on statistics in this micro Master's program
will provide you with the right background to do more
with the statistical operations and pandas.
Let's focus now on the rating column stored
in the ratings data frame or the rest of this video.
As you might remember we explored with this data set
and ratings are in a data frame called ratings.
Just like you see here, the top five rows
are indices in that data frame.
So let's go back to the descriptive
statistics part of our notebook.
We will first describe the values
in this column using the describe function.
Remember, describe function will give us some
statistics overdose and we see that part is running
and we get a count,
it means standard deviation in all of those here.
A count of the defined or useful values in this column
shows that there are more than two million ratings
recorded with a mean of 3.53, or I rounded that to 3.53.
Standard deviation is a measure
of spread or variability in your data.
A smaller deviation is good when it comes to errors.
However, if your data naturally contains
a lot of variability, it is a property
of your observation about that data.
So if we then have the percentiles,
if 50% is 3.5, that means more than
half of the ratings are 3.5 or less.
Similarly here, 75 of the ratings are below 4.0
and that's sort given in that 75% tile column, sorry row.
Note that we could have provided
the whole data frame to describe.
Here, we just provided the ratings,
but I can copy and paste this quickly
and instead of ratings rating,
I'll describe the whole data frame.
Although, this is often very useful, in our data set
userid and movieid are columns
that only store identifiers rather than measurements.
So we can safely leave their statistics out,
that's why we opted to choose only the ratings column.
Next, I'll calculate the mean of ratings,
just like we've done with describe, but in this case
it's only going to give us that mean value.
So if you're only interested in knowing the mean,
just like you would see here for that rating column,
you would call the mean function rather
than calling this describe function.
We could have done the mean again across global data frame.
So if we've done that we would have the mean
of each column as a row, or in this table
userid mean, movied mean, and ratings mean,
just like these three values would
be printed one after the other.
Okay, next we will look at the value of the ratings,
minimum and maximum ratings shortly.
Let's run these two.
We are seeing ratings and we are selecting
from that ratings column and we say dot min.
I'll run the minimum and maximum.
Okay, minimum is 0.5 and maximum is 5.0,
so they are both in the range of possible good values.
So the rating should be between zero and five
and we see minimum and maximum are within that range.
We can now use a standard deviation between ratings.
That's again as a reminder how spread
out they are from the average.
So it gives us the measure of the variability
or the variance in these ratings.
So, we'll just use the standard deviation function.
Noting the most frequent rating value
might also be interesting.
The mode function will give us this information.
So let's run that mode function on that ratings column.
It counts every value and finds the most frequent one.
So in this case, 4.0 is the most frequent rating.
So movies were rated at 4.0 most of the time.
At this point I would normally look at the correlation
between columns with measurable variables.
In our data set, since we only have one column of this type,
the rating, running the correlation function over
the data frame won't give us much information unfortunately.
But let's do it just to show how
correlation function formats its output.
So here we just say, over the whole data frame,
ratings dot corr for correlation.
And if you run that, you'll see that we have at a table with
rows and columns with the columns labels in our data frame.
So those are ideally each measurable variables.
And the table shows the correlation score
of each variable against another.
So as you would remember a negative correlation score,
here means those features in our data sets
are inversely correlated, so one go up one goes down,
and increase in one means a decrease in other in that sense.
However, as I mentioned before we won't take
this result into consideration for analysis
as we know these variables can't be related.
So that also shows you to understand correlations
we really need to have more domain information.
As we go along in other notebooks
we will be able to see the correlation scores
with more conclusive outcomes I hope.
In the next line I will check
if there is any rating above zero.
So, we can do a global, logical
comparison over the whole column
resulting in a series object with Boolean values
for each row of our data frame.
So we can do that by saying, select the ratings from rating
and compare it if it's larger or greater than five,
and it's going to give us that series object
with Boolean values in it.
So if a value is greater than five,
it's going to have true in that row.
If a value in a row in that rating column
is less than five we are gonna have a false.
So let's run this.
Filter dot any here, will tell us if any
of those values in that filter one series is true.
In this case we get the false as our truth
because there's no rating in this data set
that's more than or greater than five.
So, just to have an understanding
of how that filter looks like.
Let's print the series object, filter one.
I can actually first print the type of it,
so we know that it's a series object.
Let's get rid of this any for a sec.
And we know it's a series object.
So let's pull back and instead of the type,
let's print the filter object.
So when I do that we see that object,
that series object is a column
that compares that rating to five
and we go from zero false, false, false, false,
to something that spans all the rows.
We have about two millions rows here, or more
than that and they're all false.
So that's our ratings in the data in the ratings database.
And from the little of it we see,
we see that there are indeed no true values.
We could have also done the opposite using the all function,
then we are checking if all of
the values in that column is true.
A condition that requires us to do would be,
we want to make sure all of the values,
all of the rating values, are above zero.
And we already looked at the minimum,
we know that's the case.
So we'll run a condition here,
ratings at rating greater than zero.
And the resulting series object,
we'll assign to filter two.
And I will check all of the values
in that filter two Boolean series is true.
So let's quickly run this and we'll get true as a result.
Okay, now we explored with some statistics on the data set.
Let's move on to data cleaning and we'll first review
the data cleaning functions in pandas for that.