- Hope you were able to explore the datasets
nltk offers interactively.
Now, we will review of the corpora nltk provides.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to describe what corpus means,
list some datasets in the nltk corpora,
and recite the basic features
of the movie reviews corpus in nltk.
NL techniques depends on large amounts of text
or other linguistics data.
These digital collections are called corpora all together.
Another word you will hear is a corpus,
which is the singular form of corpora.
As you have seen in our brief live session,
nltk provides means to download some these large datasets.
After importing nltk, you were able to interact
with a download interface for all of these datasets
using nltk download, and more specifically,
we downloaded the movie reviews corpus
to start processing our notebook.
The movie reviews corpus,
was downloaded in your home folder.
So if you list directories under this folder
you will see that the corpus has 2000 reviews,
half of which are positive and other half negative.
Each review in these files or directories
has a significant amount of text,
not just short opinions on movies
averaging around 800 words.
Let's now switch to our notebook
to look at some of these reviews.
Let's continue from where we left
and import the movie reviews we downloaded.
So we'll go to our next code line, it says
from nltk.corpus import movie_reviews,
I'm gonna execute that one.
The file ID's method provided
by all the datasets in nltk corpus,
gives access to a list of all the files available.
We can look at the length of this list using
the LAN function, but first let's find out all the
files that we got from our corpus.
Maybe the top five files,
which are in the negative,
neg folder and we see the file names
and the bottom five files.
But again, this is a list,
so we can actually
run the length operation for both of these lists.
So if you wanted to get the length of movie reviews,
all of them, all the reviews,
the movie reviews gives us using the files ID's,
we could have done
LAN movie reviews here.
Okay.
When we looked at the negative fields and positive fields,
we saw that it started with the negative reviews
and switched over to positive reviews in the 'pos directory.
So it shows us our two directories,
1000 of them are negative reviews
and 1000 of them for positive.
And in line seven here and In (7), what we've done
is we've filtered the list
as positive and negative categories.
We saw that we had two equal lists for each.
So we could also inspect one of the reviews using
the raw method of movie reviews.
Each file is split into sentences
and the curators of this dataset
also removes from each review
from any direct mention of the rating of the movie.
So, in the next code line,
we get that positive file ID zero,
the first review in the positive reviews.
And here is the review.
It's indeed a significant amount of text,
but how do we start working with this text.
One way is to tokenize this text.
In the next video, we will talk about this technique
to tokenize any text like this
and use it for natural language processing.