- In this lesson, we will focus on
Natural Language Processing
using a popular Python package called NLTK.
By the end of this video, you should be able to
describe what Natural Language Processing,
or NLP, means,
list a very examples of NLP in everyday life,
and explain what NLTK is.
Natural Language Processing, or shortly NLP,
is a data science term used to refer
to the interaction of computers,
and natural language humans use.
This is not an easy task
because human language is ambiguous.
As humans, we are good at understanding the context
of something said to us,
and link that to our understanding
of the concepts around it.
Doing this algorithmically, however, is not trivial.
This is what the field of NLP tries to improve
and develop algorithms and data techniques
that make it possible in an effective and fast fashion.
Chances are, you have used an NLP application,
if you used an online summary of news or books,
looked for keywords generated
for most popular twitter topics,
or used a virtual assistant on your phone.
Let's list some of these applications.
NLP techniques are applied in speech recognition engines,
like Siri, Google Now, or Alexa.
These engines are designed to learn what and how a
human talks over time,
and constantly improve their accuracy.
Similarly, automatic translators,
like Google Translate or Facebook
automatic translation of statuses
use an LP, using some recent very effective
neural network based techniques
that take not only words and phrases into account,
but also the context, by looking at the word surrounding
the text they are translating.
Chat bots that can answer questions via Facebook Messenger
are another example of NLP.
They use NLP engines to process the questions,
often simply categorize them,
and match them to existing answers to your question.
In this lesson, we will go through a notebook
that uses NLTK for Natural Language Processing.
NLTK is the most popular Python package for NLP.
It is an open source library that provides modules
for importing, cleaning, pre-processing text data,
in human language,
and then apply computational linguistics algorithms,
or machine learning algorithms, like sentiment analysis,
to these datasets.
It also provides over 50 datasets to start working with,
including the movie database we will be using
in our example notebook.
Let's get started with our notebook.
Please now, locate the notebook called
Natural Language Processing of movie reviews,
using NLTK in your folder for Freegate.
Here, we will start with the notebook.
And, if you go to the first line, code line, code cell,
it says import NLTK.
That's where we are importing our
Natural Language Processing toolkit.
As I mentioned in the lecture video,
NLTK offers many datasets.
We'll use the NLTK download function to download,
first the movie reviews dataset.
So,
We see that it was copied into my home folder
users.altintas.
I can actually go there
and find this folder,
if I wanted to.
This is just one dataset.
We can also download all the other datasets,
or pick a few to download interactively
by typing NLTK download.
Please stop the video and execute this function
in a need code cell to interact with the pop-up window
it brings up before the you watch the next video
on what Corpus means,
and how now we can import this Corpus for this data
from NLTK.