- In this video, we'll be talking about data visualization,
and its role in data science.
So at the end of this video,
you should be able to define data visualization,
and begin to understand its important role
in the data science process.
Now that we're facing the explosion
of data that Ilikai talked about on week one,
what matters are the skills associated
with handling all this data.
Let me just read you a quote
from Google's chief economist back in 2008.
"The ability to take data, to be able to understand it,
to process it, to extract value from it, to visualize it,
to comminucate it, that's going to be
a hugely important skill in the next decade.
Because now we really do have
essentially free and ubiquitous data.
First, I like this quote because it points out
well before big data and data science became buzzwords,
the need for data scientists.
In his full interview, he makes a clear case
for statisticians as well.
As you know, statistics is one of the core areas
of data science, and using statistics
is one way to try and understand data.
I can't understate how important statistics is,
but you'll be learning more about statistics
in the next course.
So back to his quote,
the other part of understanding data is visualization.
In fact, visualization is part of much of the process
that he describes.
Processing data and extracting value from it
or understanding it often requires visualizing it
to gain that kind of insight.
And we want to communicate your results,
you'll often want to use data visualization to do that too.
So visualization is central to the skills that he describes.
There are two definitions of defining visualization
that I particularly appreciate.
The first, "the use of computer supported,
interactive, visual representations
of abstract data to amplify cognition."
And the second, "the representation and presentation of data
to facilitate understanding."
Both discuss the importance of
representing and presenting data.
Each of these is central to data visualization.
But what I like the most about these two quotes is actually
that end in the same key part of data visualization.
Improving how we understand and think about the data.
If we think about it, a pretty large chunk of our brain
is dedicated to vision.
And we've got some really powerful processing
associated with that vision in our heads.
In contrast, we're not very good at deciphering raw data.
If you give my 100 raw XY coordinates, it could take me
hours working by hand to see what they mean.
But if you give me a plot with 1000 points on a trendline,
I can often tell you in seconds what the data is telling us.
That's the power of data visualization.
In fact, let's do a couple of quick experiments.
All these data points are from one data set.
Can you see the relationship between X and Y?
Take a few seconds.
Here's some stats about X and Y, do they help?
Not really.
Correlation might help a bit, as 0.88 implies
these values are correlated, specifically that
they may have a linear relationship.
We've done a lot of work and we still
don't completely understand what's going on here.
But now we do.
It looks like there's exponential growth for Y with respect
to X, from the start, zero, until it hits around X's seven.
At that point it hits some ceiling where Y is 33,
and increasing X no longer increases Y.
Notice that correlation was actually a touch misleading,
as it implied a linear relationship
when the data on appearance doesn't apply that.
But the key point is that human visual cortex
is really talented.
Let's do this one more time.
Here's a new set of data,
all these points are from one data set.
If you focus on these for awhile,
you may begin to notice that the X and Y values
seem pretty similar with some noise.
But again, let's see if we can
understand it better in a graph.
Ah ha.
The scatter plot shows that these are really correlated,
higher X values imply higher Y and vice versa.
In fact, correlation as a statistic would have been helpful
here, and would have given us the value 0.5.
But the value is lower than you might expect
because of the outlier.
And visually, you'll probably notice
that there's a strange outlier right here.
But I don't know what to do with that information right now.
With just the raw data points, I don't know if this is
an error in the data or what caused that outlier.
I'd like to dive into that value more,
but I'm stuck without context.
And that's the other point I wanna make here.
Without a context, we don't know what to think
about the data, or this outlier.
In fact, without context,
I'm not sure if I even care about this data.
So we need context.
So turns out that these are pseudo-hypothetical midterm
and final exam scores for each student in a class.
Now that we know that, we can recognize that
performance in the midterm is pretty closely tied
to performance on the final.
For instructors, this information might lead them
to try to intervene for students who perform poorly
on the midterm, and for the outlier, context helps as well.
What happened with the student?
You could figure out which student supplied this data point
and let's say after looking into that student,
you find out that they didn't take the final.
What it turns out then, is that
when you're cleaning your data, the missing entry
for this student was made to be a zero.
But a zero on the exam and not
taking the exam are two different things.
If you remove the outlier due to missing data,
you gain a better understanding of the data, and by the way,
the correlation will now be a 0.89, without that outlier.
Thinking more about that outlier,
if we consider the correlation for the other students,
we could infer that if this student were to take the final,
they would have likely done quite well.
But we'll get more into predictions at a later week.
I also want to point out that not taking a final exam
is odd for a strong performing student.
So if I were their instructor,
this data would cause me to inquire about their wellbeing,
and I'd actually do that for any student
missing their final exam.
So these results tell me what I might be able to predict
for an outcome, and to take action regarding that outlier.
The key point is that visualization of data
means nothing without the context of the data.
Whhen we didn't know what X and Y were,
we didn't really care about the data,
context is what makes us value the visualization,
and gives us the ability to dig deeper into the data,
looking to explain outliers, and also to be able
to cone to conclusions about the data itself.
Now that we have these working definitions
of data visualization, let's talk about the ways
that we use visualization to conduct data science.