- Visualizations play a number
of different roles in data science.
And the role that they play changes
how we'll handle the visualization.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to understand the different ways
that data visualization is used in data science.
There are two key ways to categorize data visualization.
The first is whether this is conceptual or data-driven.
Most of what we'll focus on this week
and in this course is data-driven.
But visualization of concepts is important as well.
Particularly when we aim to explain
how things work conceptually.
For example, economists may seek to visualize the notion
of the classic supply and demand curve
without using real data.
And then back it up with data supporting the concept
from, say, Uber surge pricing.
Because data-driven is where we spend much
of our time as data scientists,
let's look at the second categorization in that context.
Declarative.
There's a point when we've analyzed the data,
and we have data supported conclusion
we wish to articulate to our audience.
At the point of presenting,
we want our visualization to convey
this conclusion to the observer
in the most straight forward possible manner.
Exploratory.
We spend much of our time exploring data,
and visualization plays a key role in that.
Visualizations often encourage us,
and enable us to look deeper into the data.
Let's take a look at some examples
from these categories.
So this is the classic supply-demand curve
from economics that I just mentioned.
It explains the relationship between supply,
or the quantity of goods available,
with demand,
or the amount someone is willing to pay for the item.
When quantity is low, demand is high.
As quantity goes up, demand will decline.
This is conceptual,
and these lines are hypothetical.
But since much of our work is going to be data-driven,
let's focus on that for now.
Here I'm taking a declarative example
from a research paper of mine
where we show the peer instruction,
that the peer instruction pedagogy
resulted in a significant decrease in failure rates
for students, relative to standard instruction,
in computer science classes at UC San Diego.
My goal in presenting these results
was to convey to the reader the impact
peer instruction had on failure rates
in our classes.
Without diving into the details too much,
we had failure rates from a number of classes
at UC San Diego, where instructors either taught
using the active learning pedagogy of peer instruction,
or using standard lecture-style pedagogy.
If you're interested, please read the full paper
for a complete explanation
of our experimental mental methods,
and possible limitations of these results.
As good science will always detail potential limitations
of results, along with study methods,
I hesitate to use the word declarative here,
as it doesn't quite seem right.
Rather, I prefer the term presenting.
We knew the result that we had,
and we were aiming to present it to the audience
in a clear and useful manner.
The example of the correlation
between midterm and final exam scores
from our previous video is likely explorative.
I might create a plot like this when trying
to better understand the relationship between
these exam scores in my class.
And its results would likely cause me
to explore the data more.
With explorative data visualizations,
I'm not gonna spend as much time polishing the appearance,
so long as I can interpret it, that's fine.
Likewise, I'll often want to be able
to quickly plug in different parts of my data set
into the figure to explore different relationships.
Say HOMER scores against the final exam,
rather than midterm against the final exam.
Exploration is really at the heart
of the data science process,
which we talked about in week one.
When we're finding outliers or trends,
we're often using visualization tools.
And those visualizations lead us
to dig deeper into the data.
As we dig deeper, we do the same thing.
Looking at data distributions using histograms.
Exploring relationships between variables,
or seeking other trends.
Ultimately, we find ourselves zooming in and out
of various parts of the data set
as we try to gain a better understanding.
And this process of zooming in and out of the data
is almost always accompanied by
and facilitated by data visualization.
So now that we understand the different uses
for data-driven visualization,
let's explore metrics of success for those visualizations.