- An application on astrophysics was developed
by our course assistant, Dr. Andrea Zonca.
Andrea has a PhD in astrophysics
from the University of Milan.
He now works as a senior data scientist
and a high-performance computing expert
at the San Diego Supercomputer Center.
He also teaches practical courses
in computational data sciences
as a part of Software Carpentry.
Software Carpentry is a non-profit foundation
that teaches computing skills for early career scientists,
which could be a great resource for you.
You can find this notebook developed by Andrea
under your week nine directory with the filename
of Planck Satellite Data Simulation Using pandas.
This example is inspired by one of Andrea's projects
here at the San Diego Supercomputer Center
in which a collaborate group of scientists
analyze satellite imagery of the cosmic microwave background
to study the beginning of the universe.
It sounds fun.
The notebook uses Python libraries
familiar to you from this course.
However, it also includes
domain-specific references in cosmology.
This is a typical situation for data science
where domain-specific skills get combined
with data science skills.
We are aware that you don't have a PhD in astrophysics,
but please don't be discouraged
as the notebook is self-explanatory
and is designed with you in mind.
It is very likely that you will find yourself
in an interdisciplinary team
as a data scientist in the future,
so this is a great opportunity
to start sharpening up your skills to take a domain problem
and try to understand how you can apply data science methods
and techniques to it.
The example has three distinct sections
using advanced functionalities of pandas,
NumPy, and Matplotlib.
In section one,
we will read a map created by the Planck satellite
and explore a scientific data format called HDF5.
In section two, the notebook will use NumPy
to create a simulation of how Planck scans the sky
throughout the year of observations,
and we will plot scanning rings
in different reference frames.
In section three,
the notebook will use the scanning coordinates
created in section two
to simulate an observation of the map used in section one.
We hope you have fun going through this advanced notebook
and celebrate how far you come in the last nine weeks.